prompt-test-and-fix.md, before:

Can you help me fix my flow dashboard library.

I'm working on a windows system. The rootfolder of the project is: cd /repo/jeroen/d3_research
    How can I instruct you to fix this problem in you execution:
    cd /c/repo/jeroen/d3_research && npm test -- tests/rectangular-nodes.spec.js 

    on my pc should be:
    cd /repo/jeroen/d3_research && npm test -- tests/rectangular-nodes.spec.js 

    There does the /c come from; if you want a drive, windows need c:

Python server is already running on port 8000, so you don't need to start it
Th folder: 4_edges, 5_nodes, 6_groups; are used for demonstrating the capabilities of the dashboard library in 7_dashboard. Those demo pages are also the basis of all the tests.

For testing use and improve the tests in /tests folder:
- Can you create a new test for the simple lane test with 3 Rectangular nodes; don't duplicate the dynamic tests from rectangular-nodes.spec.js
Run tests from the root of the project
Please make sure you don't start the html report by default; I don't want to wait on:   Serving HTML report at http://localhost:56794. Press Ctrl+C to quit.

http://localhost:8000/5_nodes/01_rectNode/03_node_lane.html

Some things I notice, can you command on it is that is right?
- the rectangle nodes are not centered in the middle of the container
- the long texts go from the screen on the left
- the too long text is not abreviated with elipses following

Take care, it might be wrong in the specs: implementation-nodes.md


----


Let continue fixing the adapter node display and layout of the inner nodes.

For testing use and improve the tests in /tests folder:
- /tests/adapter-nodes.spec.js
Run tests from the root of the project


I i look to the result in: http://localhost:8000/5_nodes/10_adapter/01_single.html

I notice the following problems:
- the inner container; 
Can you verify if they are covered in the tests?

Commit message:

Enhance adapter node layout and styling by implementing a zone-based system for child positioning. Update CSS for inner container visibility and add a dashed border for visual distinction. Refactor node initialization logic to ensure proper parent element assignment and improve error handling. Update tests to validate adapter node structure and positioning, ensuring all child nodes are correctly rendered within the inner container.

prompt-test-and-fix.md, after:

npx playwright install



Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)
python -m http.server 8000

execute prompt
Can you use the prompt to fix the described problem

----

Can you help me fix my flow dashboard library.

I'm working on a windows system. The rootfolder of the project is: cd /repo/jeroen/d3_research
    When changing folders, don't use: cd /c
    e.g.: cd /c/repo/d3_research && npm test -- tests/rectangular-nodes.spec.js 
    on my pc should be: cd /repo/jeroen/d3_research && npm test -- tests/rectangular-nodes.spec.js 

    The /c comes from the drive, in windows this needs to be  c:

Python server is already running on port 8000, so you don't need to start it
The folders: 4_edges, 5_nodes, 6_groups; are used for demonstrating the capabilities of the dashboard library in 7_dashboard. Those demo pages are also the basis of all the tests.

For testing use and improve the tests in /tests folder:
- Can you create a new test for the simple adapter
Run tests from the root of the project
Please make sure you don't start the html report by default; I don't want to wait on:   Serving HTML report at http://localhost:56794. Press Ctrl+C to quit.

http://localhost:8000/5_nodes/10_adapter/01_single.html
Looking at the single adapter.

Some things I notice, can you command on it is that is right?
- the 3 nodes are high, I expect archive and transform to be minimal height and staging the height of archiva and transform + vertical margin between them, so the top of archive aligns with the top of stagin; the bottom of transform aligns with the bottom of staging
- the positioning of staging is too high and too much to the right

Take care, it might be wrong in the specs: implementation-nodes.md


----


Let continue fixing the adapter node display and layout of the inner nodes.

For testing use and improve the tests in /tests folder:
- /tests/adapter-nodes.spec.js
Run tests from the root of the project


I i look to the result in: http://localhost:8000/5_nodes/10_adapter/01_single.html

I notice the following problems:
- the inner container; 
Can you verify if they are covered in the tests?
