flow-dashboard/readme.md, before:

# Flow Dashboard

A set of javascript files to visualize a flow network using d3 and d3-dag.


## Dashboard object
A dashboard is the dataset used internally and returned with the first compute and draw function.

``` javascript
    { 
        layout:{ // manual creation, input for Layout.computeAndDraw
            horizontal:horizontal,
            lineGenerator:lineGenerator,
            isEdgeCurved:isEdgeCurved
        },
        main:{
            view:{  // DrawNetwork.setup, input for Layout.computeAndDraw
                svg:mainView.svg, 
                width:mainView.width, 
                height:mainView.height
                },
            canvas:{ // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Minimap.computeLayoutAndCanvas
                svg:mainCanvas, 
                width:mainCanvas.width, 
                height:mainCanvas.height
                }
            boundingbox:{ // set in ZoomToNode
                    boundingBox: boundingBox,
                    x: boundingBox.x,
                    y: boundingBox.y,
                    width: boundingBox.width,
                    height: boundingBox.height,
                    scale:1 // initialized in Layout.computeAndDraw
            }

        },
        minimap:{
            view:{ // Minimap.setup, input for Layout.computeAndDraw
                svg:minimapSvg,         
                scale:minimapScale, 
                width:minimapWidth,     
                height:minimapHeight,   
            }
            canvas:{ // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Layout.createMinimap
                svg:minimapCanvas,          
                width:mainCanvas.width, 
                height:mainCanvas.height
            }
            viewport: {
                rect:viewportRect,   // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Minimap.createViewPort


            }
        },
        zoom:zoom // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Zoom.initializeZoom
    };
```

Commit message:

create some layers and split them

flow-dashboard/readme.md, after:

# Flow Dashboard

A set of javascript files to visualize a flow network using d3 and d3-dag.


## Dashboard object
A dashboard is the dataset used internally and returned with the first compute and draw function.

``` javascript
    { 
        layout:{ // manual creation, input for Layout.computeAndDraw
            horizontal:horizontal,
            lineGenerator:lineGenerator,
            isEdgeCurved:isEdgeCurved
        },
        main:{
            view:{  // DrawNetwork.setup, input for Layout.computeAndDraw
                svg:mainView.svg, 
                width:mainView.width, 
                height:mainView.height
                },
            canvas:{ // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Minimap.computeLayoutAndCanvas
                svg:mainCanvas, 
                width:mainCanvas.width, 
                height:mainCanvas.height
                }
            boundingbox:{ // set in ZoomToNode
                    boundingBox: boundingBox,
                    x: boundingBox.x,
                    y: boundingBox.y,
                    width: boundingBox.width,
                    height: boundingBox.height,
                    scale:1 // initialized in Layout.computeAndDraw
            }

        },
        minimap:{
            view:{ // Minimap.setup, input for Layout.computeAndDraw
                svg:minimapSvg,         
                scale:minimapScale, 
                width:minimapWidth,     
                height:minimapHeight,   
            }
            canvas:{ // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Layout.createMinimap
                svg:minimapCanvas,          
                width:mainCanvas.width, 
                height:mainCanvas.height
            }
            viewport: {
                rect:viewportRect,   // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Minimap.createViewPort


            }
        },
        zoom:zoom, // Layout.computeAndDraw --> Zoom.initializeZoom
        layers: {
            label:layerLabel
            minX:minX,
            minY:minY
        }
    };
```

## Layers
A layer is a way of grouping the nodes in columns.

This is a function to split nodes.

Two possible algorigthms:
- cut half way and put next to each other
- keep the order somewhat: take first, mode to split, take 2, put in split 2, take 3, put in split 1 etc

A split layer can be split again, going 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3 to 4,
So we need to rearrange.

For storage that would mean, we have a hierarchical layout of layers.

Layer parameter can be supplied from the dashboard definition / node definition. Or is created based on the Y position.
